there are some things that nobody says
on the internet not because they're
ignorant of these facts but because they
have difficulty being a hundred percent
honest with the audience and being a
hundred percent honest with themselves
let's go over the four things the four
secrets that are hidden in plain sight
for how you yes you can learn any
language at any level as rapidly as
possible and I'm not gonna give you any
vague [ __ ] I'm gonna tell you how it
really works all kind of coaches who are
selling you ebooks and have hid videos
here on YouTube about this they'll say
some really vague and encouraging things
about motivation well you know the most
important thing is is your motivation
let's get real people what do you mean
by motivation the single most powerful
motivating force for human nature is
fear whether you want to learn a
language or whether you want to increase
your physical strength from lifting 200
pounds to 240 pounds from 240 pounds to
270 pounds when you go to the gym
nothing motivates you more powerfully
than fear fear for your life fear you're
gonna get beaten up in the streets fear
of whatever it is organized crime
someone's out to get you no you know
what and even if you talk to competitive
athletes the desire to win is not that
powerful the desire to earn money the
desire to have Fame the desire to be
achieved none of that stuff compares to
fear for your life okay you will wake up
and study Cambodian at 6 a.m. so goddamn
hard if it's because you're terrified
that you have to walk around in the
streets of Cambodia and meet people face
to face speaking in Cambodian to try to
find a landlord and try to make sure
your landlord isn't gonna rip you off
and deal with petty Street criminals and
all this
look this is 2019 in some ways Cambodia
is less rough than it used to be 10 and
20 years ago and you know what in some
ways it's rougher some ways Cambodia
sketchier and frankly if you want to be
safe safe in Cambodia you probably need
to speak three languages I just keeping
it real
I was never held at gunpoint in Cambodia
or Laos I know a lot of people who were
held at gunpoint in Cambodia Laos and I
know one guy who was held at gunpoint
with machine guns and managed to talk
his way out of it to the gift of the gab
man if you are afraid that you are
living in a corrupt dictatorship where
the police will take you in and
interrogate you and charge you with
crimes unfairly and hold you hostage
like try to extort money from other
people by holding you hostage or try to
extort money out of you and I have been
in that situation I have talked my way
out of that when I was living in the
capital city of Laos didn't happen to me
in Cambodia it motivates you in a way
no YouTube video possibly can Italy that
no ebook ever possibly can okay that's
point one fear live in fear okay point
two a lot of people are gonna tell you
BS about watching TV watching movies
another's gonna tell you BS about flirt
with girls flirt with boys dating love
romance okay
the relationship you can ever possibly
have with a tie bar girl or a Japanese
karaoke singer or your dreamy you know
college friend or whoever it is you meet
any kind of romantic relationship you
can possibly have pales in comparison to
the relationship you would have in terms
of its value and language learning with
a grandparent or some older person
acting in the caring but authoritarian
role of a grandparent okay anyone you
seduce anyone who falls in love with you
they're not going to correct you cajole
you hold you
higher standard and help you the way a
grandparent will okay and you know why
do I compare these three things okay
people think they're just gonna whatever
go to Japan go to Thailand go to Russia
get a girlfriend and that's gonna solve
their problem and again sorry doesn't
matter switch the genders straight gay
doesn't matter a romantic relationship
is really looking for the solution in in
the wrong places
precisely because that person is gonna
love you in a certain way and treat you
as an equal answer with is all these
complexities you know what sorry
they might may not treat you as an equal
you may be the boss you may be the
dominant one in a sexual relationship
and that's even worse for language
learning right and in a sense it's like
the next step into absurdity to think
that watching entertainment like films
that are just the most supposed to make
you feel happy or make you laugh or
present you with a sequence of
explosions that titillate you and
through to think that that is what
language education is about is really a
profoundly stupid misapprehension of how
language education works okay so point
what this fear point to was you're
looking under the wrong Rock if you're
looking for romance or you're looking
for entertainment when what you should
be looking for instead is somebody like
a grandparent someone who's gonna care
for you care about you hold you a higher
standard
look disapprovingly at your handwriting
tell you that you're lisping
ever-so-slightly you're pronouncing
something ever so slightly wrong I
forget points three and points later or
not two thousand years later point three
out of four is put yourself in a good
sociolinguistic context and nobody wants
to talk about this one because it's so
hard to do right planning things out in
advance and it's so hard to cope with
after the fact if you somehow did it
wrong if you found yourself in a bad
situation there is a profound world of
difference we're throwing aside the
academic jargon here there is a profound
difference between being in a context
where people are apprehend
and suspicious of you as a foreigner
learning their language and where people
are actually warm and giving and
generous and helpful where they're happy
and gratified that you're a foreigner
learn their language okay I have been in
situations where I was the white guy
who spoke loshon suspiciously well and
was studying Buddhism and had
suspiciously good handwriting also my
handwriting and lotion was great I could
write the ancient language of Buddhism
Pali and we're people dead serious
regarded me as an American spy they
regarded me as working for the CIA
everybody got back to like oh yeah he
says he's Canadian people who work for
the CIA always say they're Canadian like
it was more suspicious that I said I was
an American that I was good citizen yeah
they have fake passports all the time
those guys right where people are like
why are you learning our language why
are you out here in these tribal
villages by the border why are you doing
this humanitarian work there must be
some those people knew I wasn't there to
get laid I wasn't ever my sex life I
wasn't the usual kind of aging tourists
in Southeast Asia
you seem highly motivated to learn our
language that's a bad thing
that is a bad sociolinguistic context
being in a context where people you know
they don't feel comfortable or positive
motivated to explain their own language
to you but how do you put yourself in a
good social linguistic context how do
you put yourself in a context where more
people behave towards you in that
grandmotherly way that I've already
described where people are really you
know positively reinforcing what you're
learning and challenging you and
practicing the language with you in a
way that's receptive and positive and
hopefully not flattering you but they're
they're really you know helping you to
on the road to fluency how do you point
that that's the answer that question you
can't find in any PDF and you can't get
it from this YouTube video it's really
really hard and you know two different
places in the same country like two
different places in Laos totally
different situation I'm sure two
different places in Mongolia totally
different situation Venus issue every
people really apprehensive of outsiders
you can be in a situation people are
really positively inclined towards a
foreigner learning their language for
with whatever set of motivation and I
think historically one of the big
reasons nobody dealt with this is
exactly that it gets into
legenda and politics let's face it the
history of translation the history of
almost every obscure form of language
research has been dominated by religious
missionaries Christians translating in
the Bible occasionally Muslims
translating the Quran whatever it is
religious fanatics have historically
dominated advanced linguistic studies
learning teaching if you just get into
who wrote the dictionaries who published
the materials design which is it's them
and then they hand the baton to the hand
the torch to you know colonial schools
like French Empire and British Empire
schools set up in those areas that again
we're very often staffed by religious
fundamentalists by priests and
what-have-you all right so nobody wants
to talk about that okay but it's crucial
a good sociolinguistic context and
finally economic desperation right
nobody is really gonna be honestly about
this either I think that economic
desperation is a very distant fourth
place compared to all the rest of these
economic desperation will never really
work for you in the same way that fear
does and the other points I've mentioned
but yeah I mean it's really funny you
sir Jeremy Corbyn just lost the
elections and I said look you know um I
don't assume that you know rich people
are bad people just because they're rich
but you know it's it is funny in Western
culture you know there are all these
kind of defects of character that we
associate with rich with people who are
born rich people who you know don't have
to work hard before I'm motivated in
this way and there's no doubt that I
mean economic desperation in every way
whether it's just that it makes you
really scrutinize what you're buying at
the grocery store well it may stuff like
the S but it's not that you're not just
like Oh fine I'll just get some bananas
so no I was in Taiwan and I took the
time to ask which in Chinese which one
of these bananas cost less per kilogram
because one one would had the price by
kilogram and the other had the price per
banana you know and I went up and I had
this conversation in Chinese with a
woman and we figured out which was the
better deal okay if you got money to
burn you don't have that conversation in
every way whether it's job applications
and the interview
actions that leads you into whether it's
finding a place to sleep the way in
which sleeping in a cheaper place forces
you into the company of other poor
people and mixing with those people the
kind of economic interactions and
what-have-you I look put it this way
think about how different your
experience is staying in a five-star
hotel as opposed to staying in like a
hostel in a dorm staying in a student
dorm staying in a cheap youth also
staying you know the poorer you are and
it's not it's not just poverty it's that
you're struggling against that poverty
that you're going out and making that
effort your own economic desperation
could also drive you towards learning a
language much better than others would
and I think we see this again and again
where even within the same ph.d program
the kids who are in the idle rich and
again maybe they can afford to pay a
translator
you know things as simple as that they
have other ways to work around the
problem because of their money they
never seem to get away get ahead the
same way as someone who's poor and
specifically poor and motivated to
struggle people like to disrespect my
truth but the fact is that you know my
name is I don't know